feat(lb): create guide migration lb (#7484)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_kubernetes/migrate-loadbalancer-iolb-to-octavia/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: How to migrate from LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)

> excerpt: "How do I migrate from a LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to a LoadBalancer for the Public Cloud (Octavia) and how do I change my DNS"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "How do I migrate from a LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to a LoadBalancer for the Public Cloud (Octavia)"
```

updated: 2025-01-17
---

## Objective

> The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) users migrate from their Ingress LoadBalancer (IOLB), which will be deprecated from version MKS 1.32, to the Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) to migrate from an existing [Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).

[Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is the default Load Balancer for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.30.
[Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is deprecated for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.31.
```

It explains the steps required to make this transition safely, minimising service interruptions. Finally, it provides recommendations on DNS management, in particular reducing the TTL, to optimise the propagation of changes and ensure a smooth migration.

> [!warning]
>
> As Loadbalancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud LoadBalancer do not use the same solution for Public IP allocation, it is not possible to keep the existing public IP of your Loadbalancer for Kubernetes. Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Loadbalancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).

## Migration of your LoadBalancer

> [!warning]
>  

> > Starting with MKS version **1.32**, any upgrade attempt will be blocked if an **IOLB** LoadBalancer service is still present in the cluster.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Starting from MKS cluster using Kubernetes version **1.32**, any cluster upgrade attempt will be blocked if an service [Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) (IOLB) is still present in the cluster.  
```

>  
> Action required**: Before upgrading, you must **migrate your services to the Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)** by following the steps described in this guide.  
>  
> If you attempt to upgrade without first migrating, an error will be returned, preventing the upgrade.

In order to migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) you will have to modify an existing Service and change its LoadBalancer class.

Your existing LoadBalancer Service using [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) should have the following annotation:

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "iolb"
```

##### Step 1 - Edit your Service to change the LoadBalancer class to 'octavia'

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // not required for clusters running kubernetes versions >= 1.31, you can just remove the annotation.
```

> ##### Step 2 - Apply the change

Reviewer: at this step the old LB and old IP will be deleted. Customer services are no longer reachable using the old IP, need to perform the DNS switch (provide the new IP immediately).

Note that it is possible to reserve/get the new public IP (floating IP) by advance and then specify it at service/lb creation.

```yaml
kubectl apply -f your-service-manifest.yaml
```

## Perform a DNS switch

### Check the current TTL

By default, DNS servers cache the IP address of a domain for a period defined by the TTL (Time-To-Live).

A TTL that is too long can slow down the transition by forcing some users to wait several hours before accessing the new Load Balancer. To avoid this, we recommend temporarily reducing the TTL before updating the IP.

Before changing the TTL, it is important to know its current value. To do this, run the following command in a terminal:

```bash
dig yourdomain.com +noall +answer

yourdomain.com.             224     IN      A       17*.***.**.*4
```

Here, 224 corresponds to the TTL in seconds (i.e. approximately 4 minutes). This means that the DNS servers keep this IP in cache for this length of time before checking for an update.

> ### Lower the TTL before migration

Reviewer: According to the guide it is important to lower the TTL duration before applying the LB change (section juste above). We should move this section at the beginning of the guide ?

Reviewer 2: Addressed with this alert: https://github.com/ovh/docs/pull/7484/commits/59de87f68ebfc2c2d3ab35e048b7656209ece564

To lower the TTL, follow these steps:

- Access your DNS management console.
- Find the A record (or CNAME) associated with your domain.

> - Change the TTL of your A or CNAME record by reducing it to 300 seconds (5 min).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the TTL of your A or CNAME record by reducing it to 300 seconds (5 min).
```

Given the above exemple you suggest a change for "approximately 4 minutes" to 5 minutes

- Wait 24 to 48 hours for this new TTL to propagate.

> [!info]
>
> Why wait? Because DNS servers must first clear their caches before adopting the new TTL.

### Update the Load Balancer IP

Once the TTL reduction has been propagated :

> - Replace the old IP with that of the new Load Balancer in your DNS record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace the old IP with the one of the new Load Balancer in your DNS record.
```

---
title: How to migrate from LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)
excerpt: "How do I migrate from a LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to a LoadBalancer for the Public Cloud (Octavia)"
updated: 2025-01-17
---

## Objective

> The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) to migrate from an existing [Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) users to migrate from an existing [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).
```

> [Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is the default Load Balancer for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.30.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) is the default Load Balancer for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.30.
```

[Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is deprecated for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.31.

It explains the steps required to make this transition safely, minimising service interruptions. Finally, it provides recommendations on DNS management, in particular reducing the TTL, to optimise the propagation of changes and ensure a smooth migration.

> [!warning]
>
> As Loadbalancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud LoadBalancer do not use the same solution for Public IP allocation, it is not possible to keep the existing public IP of your Loadbalancer for Kubernetes. Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Loadbalancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).

## Comparison

> When selecting a load balancing solution, it's important to compare the features and limitations of each option. Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities. Public Cloud Load Balancer introduce several size/flavor, you can find the detailed specifications on the [Public Cloud Loadbalancer webpage](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/load-balancer/)
```

> |                                     | Load Balancer for Kubernetes | Public Cloud Load Balancer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                                     | Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes | Public Cloud Load Balancer |
```

| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Maximum number of connections       | 10 000                       | up to 20 000               |
| Maximum number of HTTP  requests    | 2000                         | Up to 80 000               |
| Bandwith                            | 200 Mbit/s                   | up to 4 Gbit/s (up/down)   |
| Supported protocol                  | TCP                          | TCP/UCP                    |
| Supported load balancing layers     | L4                           | L4/L7                      |
| Capacity to export metrics and logs | No                           | Yes                        |
| Private to private scenario         | No                           | Yes                        |
| Floating IP                         | No                           | Yes                        |

## Migration of your LoadBalancer

> [!warning]
>  

> > Starting from MKS cluster using Kubernetes version **1.32**, any cluster upgrade attempt will be blocked if an service [Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) (IOLB) is still present in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Starting from MKS cluster using Kubernetes version **1.32**, any cluster upgrade attempt will be blocked if a service of type Loadbalancer relying on [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) (IOLB) is still present in the cluster.
```

>  
> Action required**: Before upgrading, you must **migrate your services to the Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)** by following the steps described in this guide.  
>  
> If you attempt to upgrade without first migrating, an error will be returned, preventing the upgrade.
>

> > The old LoadBalancer and IP will be deleted, making services unreachable. Perform the DNS switch immediately with the new IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> > You can reserve a public IP (floating IP) in advance and specify it during service/load balancer creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is two way to move from the LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), you can either **Migrate** or **Replace**. 
```

> In order to migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) you will have to modify an existing Service and change its LoadBalancer class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Migrate** from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer):

Migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves creating a new Loadbalancer service using Public Cloud Loadbalancer with the same labelSelector to expose your application. For a short period of time, your application will be accessible using both loadbalancers. 
At this time you can perform a DNS switch and then delete the old Loadbalancer.

Your existing LoadBalancer Service using [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) should have the following annotation:

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "iolb"

#### Step 1 - Create a new Loadbalancer service using the exact same template. You can set the annotation `loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia"` for cluster <1.31 or remove it completely for cluster >= 1.31 as Octavia will be the one used by default.

A new Public Cloud Loadbalancer will be created with a new public IP. 

#### Step 2 - Test Application access 

Retrieve the new public IP using `kubectl get svc` and verify that you can access your application as expected. 

#### Step 3 - Perform the DNS switch 

### **Replace** existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) by a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer):

Replace an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves to modify the existing service and change the loadbalancer class from 'iolb' to 'octavia'. This will lead to Kubernetes reconciling the loadbalancer class by deleting the old one and create a new loadbalancer.
At this time you can perform a DNS switch using the new public IP.
Please note that during the deletion and creation process, your service will not be accessible. 

You can reduce this impact by lowering your DNS TTL duration, please refer to the dedicated section: ### Lower the TTL before migration

Your existing LoadBalancer Service using [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) should have the following annotation:

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "iolb"
```

##### Step 1 - Edit your Service to change the LoadBalancer class to 'octavia'

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // not required for clusters running kubernetes versions >= 1.31, you can just remove the annotation.
```

> ##### Step 2 - Apply the change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Step 2 - Apply the change
> [!warning]
> The old LoadBalancer and IP will be deleted **permanently**, making services unreachable. Perform the DNS switch immediately with the new IP.
```

---
title: How to migrate from LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)
excerpt: "How do I migrate from a LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to a LoadBalancer for the Public Cloud (Octavia)"
updated: 2025-02-13
---

<style>
details>summary {
    color:rgb(33, 153, 232) !important;
    cursor: pointer;
}
details>summary::before {
    content:'\25B6';
    padding-right:1ch;
}
details[open]>summary::before {
    content:'\25BC';
}
</style>

## Objective

The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) users to migrate from an existing [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).

[Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) is the default Load Balancer for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.30.

> [Loadbalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is deprecated for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.31.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is deprecated for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.31.
```

> It explains the steps required to make this transition safely, minimising service interruptions. Finally, it provides recommendations on DNS management, in particular reducing the TTL, to optimise the propagation of changes and ensure a smooth migration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It explains the steps required to make this transition safely, minimizing service interruptions. Finally, it provides recommendations on DNS management, in particular reducing the TTL, to optimize the propagation of changes and ensure a smooth migration.
```

> [!warning]
>
> As Loadbalancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud LoadBalancer do not use the same solution for Public IP allocation, it is not possible to keep the existing public IP of your Loadbalancer for Kubernetes. Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Loadbalancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).

## Comparison

> Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities. Public Cloud Load Balancer introduce several size/flavor, you can find the detailed specifications on the [Public Cloud Loadbalancer webpage.](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/load-balancer/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities. Public Cloud Load Balancer introduces several sizes/flavors, you can find the detailed specifications on the [Public Cloud Loadbalancer webpage.](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/load-balancer/)
```

|                                     | Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes | Public Cloud Load Balancer |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| Maximum number of connections       | 10 000                               | up to 20 000               |

> | Maximum number of HTTP  requests    | 2000                                 | Up to 80 000               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of HTTP requests     | 2000                                 | Up to 80 000               |
```

> | Bandwith                            | 200 Mbit/s                           | up to 4 Gbit/s (up/down)   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Bandwidth                           | 200 Mbit/s                           | up to 4 Gbit/s (up/down)   |
```

| Supported protocol                  | TCP                                  | TCP/UCP                    |
| Supported load balancing layers     | L4                                   | L4/L7                      |
| Capacity to export metrics and logs | No                                   | Yes                        |
| Private to private scenario         | No                                   | Yes                        |
| Floating IP                         | No                                   | Yes                        |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Annotations

Below is a matching of existing annotations supported on [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) and their equivalent on [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer). 
You can find full details on the official documentations pages : 
- [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes annotations](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-public-cloud-kubernetes-using-lb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0050019#supported-annotations)
- [Public Cloud Loadbalancer annotations](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-ie-public-cloud-kubernetes-expose-applications-using-load-balancer?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0062874#supported-annotations-features)

|                                           Load balancer for Kubernetes                                          | Public Cloud Load Balancer                                                                                                                              |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `service.beta.kubernetes.io/ovh-loadbalancer-proxy-protocol` <br> Supported values: <br>- v1 <br>- v2 <br>- v2-ssl <br>- v2-ssl-cn   | `loadbalancer.openstack.org/proxy-protocol` <br>Supported values: <br>- v1, true: enable the ProxyProtocol version 1 <br>- v2: enable the ProxyProtocol version 2  <br><br><br>       |
| `service.beta.kubernetes.io/ovh-loadbalancer-allowed-sources` <br> **--> DEPRECATED**                                      | No annotation.  <br>IP restriction is defined using `.spec.loadBalancerSourceRanges`  |
| `service.beta.kubernetes.io/ovh-loadbalancer-balance` Supported values: <br>- first <br>- leastconn <br>- roundrobin <br>- source | `loadbalancer.openstack.org/lb-method` <br> Supported values: <br>- ROUND_ROBIN <br>- LEAST_CONNECTIONS <br>- SOURCE_IP    <br>                                                |
```

## Migration of your LoadBalancer

> [!warning]
>  

> > Starting from MKS cluster using Kubernetes version **1.32**, any cluster upgrade attempt will be blocked if a service of type Loadbalancer relying on [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) (IOLB) is still present in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Starting from MKS cluster using Kubernetes version **1.31**, any cluster upgrade attempt will be blocked if a service of type Loadbalancer relying on [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) (IOLB) is still present in the cluster.
```

>  

> > Action required**: Before upgrading, you must **migrate your services to the Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)** by following the steps described in this guide.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Action required**: Before upgrading, you must **change your services into a Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)** by following the steps described in this guide.  
```

>  
> If you attempt to upgrade without first migrating, an error will be returned, preventing the upgrade.
>

> There is two way to move from the [Load Balancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), you can either **Migrate** or **Replace**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is two ways to move from a [Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), you can either **Migrate** or **Replace**.
```

Your existing LoadBalancer Service using [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) should have the following annotation:

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "iolb"
```

/// details | **Migrate**

> Migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves creating a new Load Balancer service using Public Cloud Load Balancer with the same labelSelector to expose your application. For a short period of time, your application will be accessible using both Load Balancers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves creating a new Load Balancer service using Public Cloud Load Balancer with the same label selectors to expose your application. For a short period of time, your application will be accessible using both Load Balancers.
```

At this time you can perform a DNS switch and then delete the old Loadbalancer.

> To migrate grom an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), follow this steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), follow this steps:
```

### Step 1 - Create a new Load Balancer service

You need to create a new LoadBalancer service using the Public Cloud LoadBalancer while keeping the existing one active:

- Ensure that the new service has the same labelSelector as the old one so that it exposes the same application.
- You can set the annotation `loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia"` for cluster <1.31 or remove it completely for cluster >= 1.31 as Octavia will be the one used by default.

**labelSelector**:

```yaml
spec:
  selector:
    app: my-app
```

**annotations**:

```yaml
annotations:

>   loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // if your cluster <1.31

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // if your cluster <1.31
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/flavor: "small" // Available values: small (default) | medium | large | xl
```

>   loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // if your cluster <1.31

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // if your cluster <1.31
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/flavor: "small" // Available values: small (default) | medium | large | xl
```

```

Apply the new service with:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f your-service-manifest.yaml
```

> This will create a new Public Cloud LoadBalancer with a new public IP

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will create a new Public Cloud LoadBalancer with a new public IP.
```

### Step 2 - Test Application access

Once the new LoadBalancer is created, get the public IPs of both services:

```yaml
kubectl get svc -o wide
```

You should see two LoadBalancer services pointing to the same application with different public IPs.

Test accessibility via both IPs:

```yaml
curl http://<OLD_LOADBALANCER_IP>
curl http://<NEW_LOADBALANCER_IP>
```

Both should return a successful response from your application.

### Step 3 - Perform a DNS switch

> To perform a DNS switch, refer to [this part.](#perform-a-dns-switch)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To perform a DNS switch, refer to [this part of the documentation.](#perform-a-dns-switch)
```

> ### Step 4 - Remove the old Load Balancer service

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 4 - Remove the Load Balancer service for Kubernetes (a.k.a. IOLB)
```

Once you confirm that traffic is flowing through the new LoadBalancer and the old one is no longer needed, remove the old LoadBalancer service by deleting it:

```yaml
kubectl delete svc old-loadbalancer-service
```

> ///

Reviewer 3: Line to remove?

Author: no, there is always a line to pass before this “///” in this context ( hidden/unseen section )

/// details | **Replace**

> Replace an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves to modify the existing service and change the loadbalancer class from 'iolb' to 'octavia'. This will lead to Kubernetes reconciling the loadbalancer class by deleting the old one and create a new loadbalancer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves to modify the existing service and change the loadbalancer class from `iolb` to `octavia`. This will lead to Kubernetes reconciling the loadbalancer class by deleting the old one and create a new loadbalancer.
```

> At this time you can perform a DNS switch using the new public IP.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the new loadbalancer delivered, you can perform a DNS switch using the new public IP.
```

> [!warning]
>
> Please note that during the deletion and creation process, your service will not be accessible.
>
> You can reduce this impact by lowering your DNS TTL duration, please refer to [this dedicated section](#perform-a-dns-switch).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ### Step 1 - Edit your Service to change the LoadBalancer class to 'octavia'

Reviewer 3: Maybe it could be interesting to merge step 1 and 2 by providing a proper command line to edit the service in live?
By instance: `kubectl edit service <my-load-balancer-name>`.

Because without more details in the step 1, it's too implicit that the reader should execute the following steps:
* `kubectl get service <my-load-balancer-name> -o yaml`
* Then update file in local to change load balancer class
* Then apply modification as described in step 2

WDYT?

Author: We merge the steps, but we won't use 'kubectl edit ..' to avoid complexity for a beginner. ( see with Antonin )

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // not required for clusters running kubernetes versions >= 1.31, you can just remove the annotation.
```

### Step 2 - Apply the change

> [!warning]
>

> > The old LoadBalancer and IP will be deleted **permanently**, making services unreachable. Perform the DNS switch immediately with the new IP.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The old LoadBalancer and its IP address will be deleted **permanently**, making services unreachable. Perform the DNS switch immediately with the new provided IP.
```

>

```yaml
kubectl apply -f your-service-manifest.yaml
```

### Step 3 - Perform a DNS switch

> To perform a DNS switch, refer to [this part.](#perform-a-dns-switch)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To perform a DNS switch, refer to [this part of the documentation.](#perform-a-dns-switch)
```

By default, DNS servers cache the IP address of a domain for a period defined by the TTL (Time-To-Live).

A TTL that is too long can slow down the transition by forcing some users to wait several hours before accessing the new Load Balancer. To avoid this, we recommend temporarily reducing the TTL before updating the IP.

Before changing the TTL, it is important to know its current value. To do this, run the following command in a terminal:

```bash
dig yourdomain.com +noall +answer

yourdomain.com.             600     IN      A       17*.***.**.*4
```

Here, 600 corresponds to the TTL in seconds (i.e. approximately 10 minutes). This means that the DNS servers keep this IP in cache for this length of time before checking for an update.

### Lower the TTL before migration

To lower the TTL, follow these steps:

- Access your DNS management console.
- Find the A record (or CNAME) associated with your domain.
- Change the TTL of your A or CNAME record by reducing it to 300 seconds (5 min).
- Wait 24 to 48 hours for this new TTL to propagate.

> [!info]
>
> Why wait? Because DNS servers must first clear their caches before adopting the new TTL.

### Update the Load Balancer IP

> Once the TTL reduction has been propagated :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the TTL reduction has been propagated:
```

- Replace the old IP with the one of the new Load Balancer in your DNS record.

> - Thanks to the low TTL, users will quickly see the update.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Thanks to the short TTL value, users will quickly see the update.
```

> - Check that the change is effective using the same **dig** command you used recently. You should see the new IP displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Check that the change is effective using the same `dig` command used previously. You should see the new IP address  displayed in the command output.
```

### Restore TTL after migration

> Once the transition has been validated and the old Load Balancer disconnected, reset the TTL to a higher value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the transition has been validated and the old Load Balancer disconnected, reconfigure the TTL with a higher value.
```

---

> title: How to migrate from LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: How to migrate from Load Balancer for MKS (IOLB) to Public Cloud Load Balancer (Octavia)
```

> excerpt: "How do I migrate from a LoadBalancer for MKS (IOLB) to a LoadBalancer for the Public Cloud (Octavia)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
excerpt: "How do I migrate from a Load Balancer for MKS (IOLB) to a LoadBalancer for the Public Cloud (Octavia)"
```

updated: 2025-02-13
---

<style>
details>summary {
    color:rgb(33, 153, 232) !important;
    cursor: pointer;
}
details>summary::before {
    content:'\25B6';
    padding-right:1ch;
}
details[open]>summary::before {
    content:'\25BC';
}
</style>

## Objective

> The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) users to migrate from an existing [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is to help OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) users to migrate from an existing [Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).
```

[Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) is the default Load Balancer for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.30.

[Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) is deprecated for MKS clusters using Kubernetes versions >1.31.

It explains the steps required to make this transition safely, minimizing service interruptions. Finally, it provides recommendations on DNS management, in particular reducing the TTL, to optimize the propagation of changes and ensure a smooth migration.

> [!warning]
>

> > As Loadbalancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud LoadBalancer do not use the same solution for Public IP allocation, it is not possible to keep the existing public IP of your Loadbalancer for Kubernetes. Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Loadbalancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> As Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer do not use the same solution for Public IP allocation, it is not possible to keep the existing public IP of your Load Balancer for Kubernetes. Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Load Balancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).
```

## Comparison

> Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities. Public Cloud Load Balancer introduces several sizes/flavors, you can find the detailed specifications on the [Public Cloud Loadbalancer webpage.](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/load-balancer/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities. Public Cloud Load Balancer introduces several sizes/flavors, you can find the detailed specifications on the [Public Cloud Loadbalancer webpage](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).
```

| Supported load balancing layers     | L4                                   | L4/L7                      |
| Capacity to export metrics and logs | No                                   | Yes                        |
| Private to private scenario         | No                                   | Yes                        |
| Floating IP                         | No                                   | Yes                        |

## Annotations

Below is a matching of existing annotations supported on [Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) and their equivalent on [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer).

> [!warning]
>
> If you are using legacy annotations from [Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes), you must update them to the new format supported by [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) during migration.  
>  
> Some annotations have been **deprecated** and need to be replaced to ensure full compatibility.  

You can find full details on the official documentations pages :

> - [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes annotations](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-public-cloud-kubernetes-using-lb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0050019#supported-annotations)

Reviewer 2: This link and the one below need to be edited so to use the `/pages` format

## Migration of your LoadBalancer

> [!warning]
>  
> Starting from MKS cluster using Kubernetes version **1.31**, any cluster upgrade attempt will be blocked if a service of type Loadbalancer relying on [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) (IOLB) is still present in the cluster.
>  
> Action required**: Before upgrading, you must **change your services into a Public Cloud LoadBalancer (Octavia)** by following the steps described in this guide.
>  
> If you attempt to upgrade without first migrating, an error will be returned, preventing the upgrade.
>

There is two ways to move from a [Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), you can either **Migrate** or **Replace**.

Your existing LoadBalancer Service using [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) should have the following annotation:

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "iolb"
```

/// details | **Migrate**

> Migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves creating a new Load Balancer service using Public Cloud Load Balancer with the same label selector to expose your application. For a short period of time, your application will be accessible using both Load Balancers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrating from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) involves creating a new Load Balancer service using Public Cloud Load Balancer with the same label selector to expose your application. For a short period of time, your application will be accessible using both Load Balancers.
```

> At this time you can perform a DNS switch and then delete the old Loadbalancer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this time you can perform a DNS switch and then delete the old Load Balancer.
```

> To migrate from an existing [LoadBalancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud LoadBalancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), follow this steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To migrate from an existing [Load Balancer for Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes) to a [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer), follow this steps:
```

### Step 1 - Create a new Load Balancer service

You need to create a new LoadBalancer service using the Public Cloud LoadBalancer while keeping the existing one active:

- Ensure that the new service has the same labelSelector as the old one so that it exposes the same application.
- You can set the annotation `loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia"` for cluster <1.31 or remove it completely for cluster >= 1.31 as Octavia will be the one used by default.

**labelSelector**:

```yaml
spec:
  selector:
    app: my-app
```

**annotations**:

```yaml
annotations:
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia" // if your cluster <1.31
  loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/flavor: "small" // Available values: small (default) | medium | large | xl
```

Apply the new service with:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f your-service-manifest.yaml
```

This will create a new Public Cloud LoadBalancer with a new public IP.

### Step 2 - Test Application access

> Once the new LoadBalancer is created, get the public IPs of both services:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the new Load Balancer is created, get the public IPs of both services:
```

```yaml
kubectl get svc -o wide
```

> You should see two LoadBalancer services pointing to the same application with different public IPs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should see two Load Balancer services pointing to the same application with different public IPs.
```

> [!warning]
>
> As Loadbalancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud LoadBalancer do not use the same solution for Public IP allocation, it is not possible to keep the existing public IP of your Loadbalancer for Kubernetes. Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Loadbalancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).

## Comparison

Below is a comparison between Load Balancer for Kubernetes and Public Cloud Load Balancer, highlighting their key differences and capabilities. Public Cloud Load Balancer introduces several sizes/flavors, you can find the detailed specifications on the [Public Cloud Loadbalancer webpage.](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/load-balancer/)

|                                     | Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes | Public Cloud Load Balancer |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| Maximum number of connections       | 10 000                               | up to 20 000               |

> | Maximum number of HTTP requests    | 2000                                 | Up to 80 000               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of HTTP requests     | 2000                                 | Up to 80 000               |
```

> | Bandwidth                            | 200 Mbit/s                           | up to 4 Gbit/s (up/down)   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Bandwidth                           | 200 Mbit/s                           | up to 4 Gbit/s (up/down)   |
```

> [!warning]
>
> If you are using legacy annotations from [Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer-kubernetes), you must update them to the new format supported by [Public Cloud Load Balancer](/links/public-cloud/load-balancer) during migration.  
>  
> Some annotations have been **deprecated** and need to be replaced to ensure full compatibility.  

You can find full details on the official documentations pages :

- [Loadbalancer for Managed Kubernetes annotations](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-public-cloud-kubernetes-using-lb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0050019#supported-annotations)
- [Public Cloud Loadbalancer annotations](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-ie-public-cloud-kubernetes-expose-applications-using-load-balancer?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0062874#supported-annotations-features)

| Load Balancer for Managed Kubernetes                                          | Public Cloud Load Balancer |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |

> | `service.beta.kubernetes.io/ovh-loadbalancer-proxy-protocol` <br> Supported values: <br>- v1 <br>- v2 <br>- v2-ssl <br>- v2-ssl-cn   | `loadbalancer.openstack.org/proxy-protocol` <br>Supported values: <br>- v1, true: enable the ProxyProtocol version 1 <br>- v2: enable the ProxyProtocol version 2  <br><br><br>       |

Reviewer 3: Is the display of this table OK?

Author: Normally yes, I'll leave it to Antonin to see if he likes it the way he wants.

### Update the Load Balancer IP

Once the TTL reduction has been propagated:

- Replace the old IP with the one of the new Load Balancer in your DNS record.
- Thanks to the short TTL value, users will quickly see the update.

> - Check that the change is effective using the same `dig` command used previously. You should see the new IP address  displayed in the command output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Check that the change is effective using the same `dig` command used previously. You should see the new IP address displayed in the command output.
```
